From
https://shekereblog.wordpress.com/contributors/chinweizu/educationforliberationinblackafrica/?utm_source=chatgpt.com
Chinweizu Ibekwe

“Africans were educated so that they could be better enslaved and Europeanized.”
"Black Africans who are fascinated with European ways, who are mindlessly obedient servants of Europe; who are filled with inferiority complexes; who are culturally de-Africanized, Europhile and Afrophobic, just like those produced by colonial schools."
"In 50 years, no conscious campaign has been made to change the colonial character of our education. If anything, change has been in the other direction.”
“What good is an education that keeps us blind to reality, that alienates us from our group, that fails to teach us our basic interests?”
“Our neo-colonial education does not teach us how to face the perils of today; does not teach us to create our own future; does not prepare us to face the perils of the future.”
"Our youth don’t know our enemies. They think colonialism is over. They think of the imperialists as our generous and benevolent ‘development partners’; "


Abdou Moumouni Dioffo
https://chatgpt.com/c/69f69904-cfe0-83ea-8f05-079702fd677b
from
https://zenodo.org/record/2631977/files/L%27e%CC%81ducation-en-Afrique-1554685171._print.pdf?utm_source=chatgpt.com
"colonial education literally gangrened the thought and emotional life of the African and stuffed his behavior with a procession of complexes and abnormal reflexes"
"colonial education in general - by its assimilating character and by the negation of national culture that it entails, leads to a true alienation of the colonized."
"everything in schooling aimed to convince the young African of the ‘congenital’ inferiority of the Black person, of the barbarity of his ancestors, and of the goodness and generosity of the colonizing nation"
"African ‘traditional’ education is a fertile source of instruction and a subject of reflection that imposes itself on anyone who wants to consider, with even a little seriousness, the problems of education and teaching in contemporary Black Africa."

walter rodney
https://chatgpt.com/c/69f69805-49f0-83ea-8ec1-bfe986954e3d
from
https://arxiujosepserradell.cat/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/How-Europe-Underdeveloped-Africa-by-Recorded-Books-Inc.Rodney-Walter-z-lib.org_.pdf
https://chatgpt.com/c/69f69805-49f0-83ea-8ec1-bfe986954e3d

"Colonial schooling was education for subordination, exploitation, the creation of mental confusion, and the development of underdevelopment."
"among those who had the most education were to be found the most alienated Africans on the continent. Those were the ones who evolved and were assimilated. At each further stage of education, they were battered by and succumbed to the values of the white capitalist system; and, after being given salaries, they could then afford to sustain a style of life imported from outside. Access to knives and forks, three-piece suits, and pianos then further transformed their mentality. "
"Unfortunately, the colonial school system educated far too many fools and clowns, fascinated by the ideas and way of life of the European capitalist class. Some reached a point of total estrangement from African conditions and the African way of life,"
" the most crucial aspect of pre-colonial African education was its relevance to Africans, in sharp contrast with what was later introduced"
"indigenous African education can be considered outstanding: its close links with social life, both in a material and spiritual sense; its collective nature; its many-sidedness; and its progressive development in conformity with the successive stages of physical, emotional, and mental development of the child. There was no separation of education and productive activity or any division between manual and intellectual education"
"pre-colonial African education matched the realities of pre-colonial African society and produced well-rounded personalities to fit into that society."
“In Africa, both the formal school system and the informal value system of colonialism destroyed social solidarity and promoted the worst form of alienated individualism without social responsibility.”
“It was not an educational system designed to give young people confidence and pride as members of African societies, but one which sought to instill a sense of deference towards all that was European and capitalist.”
